The vision for a great work for the Lord began in the heart of a young man in the   early month of the year 1998.
Pastor Herbert Collano, a then worker of nine years, preacher, and the assistant to the Pastor of LCBBC Valenzuela finished his Bible school and felt a call and a heart to start a missionl.
He went and seek blessing from his “tatay” in the Faith Pastor Benny Abante Sr. of MBBE. He was given permission and blessing.
With only a hammer, saw, nails and song books in hand he went to Bicol to try and start a mission there. However something came up that’s why he decided to go back to Manila.
He went back to Valenzuela and continued to become a second man.
Pastor Herbert Collano often visits his brother, Pastor Ramer of LIBBC Dasma Cavite and it happens that everytime he went there his brother is scheduled to go to Trece for Bible study. Then came a time when Pastor Ramer offered the Bible study group he is handling in Trece to Pastor Herbert.  Pastor was  hesitant at that time because he is eyeing a different place- in Caloocan. But with contemplation and continuous seeking from the Lord, the burden for the work became greater for him and he decided to accept the  work in Trece. 
There were a lot of struggle when the work started in Trece. The bible study he handled was left with only 2 member. He was given the authority to baptize and to preach however he had no financial support but he still continued despite the struggle. Pastor Herbert got married to his wife Ma’am Cyrell and they both helped each other in the ministry where they were blessed with two boys, Hugh and Hans. 

The mission grew in number little by little and they had their first place in San Agustin and by the grace of God the work was maintained and then they transferred to Maligaya. 
Five years after mission, and with the growing number of members they organized the church in 2003 and named it Central Bible Baptist Church. Pastor has a great vision for the ministry to grow. Thats why 
After Maligaya the church was transferred to P12 
After P12,  the church was transferred to Brgy Gregorio, in front of the old  depot and NSO Building where it last for almost 10 years. In here the church  experienced a lot of suffering and challenge in terms of finance. This is also the time where  Pastor Herbert experienced an infirmity of the flesh when his  health has deteriorated due to his thyroid and the time they experienced the loss of their baby daughter, Hannah and the near death experience of his dear wife during pregnancy. Despite that, The church membership during this times were also steadily increased and recognizing a need for a larger church home.

The abounding grace of the Lord was evident in the church. Pastor Herbert kept the promise of the Lord that the Lord will be faithful to those who has kept His promise and  that he will provide everything they need. 

By the grace of God in the year 2013 the church was able to buy a lot in p 12 near the place where once the old church was located. The church was able to have their own church building and the Lord is continually adding people and blessing the church in many aspects.

Even through the pandemic, the church did not stopped its services and continued to preach the word of God.


It was eighteen years right now and still by God’s grace the work in the Lord’s vineyard is continually working in God’s will. Throughout the year, the church did great and mighty things as God has promised to his children whose working hard together with his house or family to serve him steadfastly unmovable and always abounding in the work of the Lord for as much as ye know, our labor is not in vain in the Lord.